Now that you have projected all
your data layers and your map,
you're ready to do some area
calculations.
So when you do any geometry
calculations in QGIS, you first
of all need to set the units of
your project so that you know
what units these measurements
are being measured in.
So to do that you need to go
into the Project tab and go into
properties, and in this project
properties window you want to
make sure you're in the General
tab and we're going to be in
this measurement section.
So in here we can see that we
can set the units for distance
measurement and the units for
area measurement.
We don't need to worry about
distance as we're not
calculating that.
So we'll just make sure that the
units for area measurement is
set to square kilometres.
So we'll set that, we'll hit,
apply and hit OK, and now we can
calculate the area.
So we'll start off calculating
the area for Ziama and when you
calculate area in QGIS, you need
to use that layers attribute
table to do so.
So we're going to open up Ziama
protected area attribute table
and now we need to create a new
field or a new column to
calculate the area in.
So to do that we need to toggle
editing mode on using this
button here and then go across
to the new field button which is
here and click on this which
will bring up this pop up.
So here in name we can name our
new column so we'll name it Area
and for type we'll make sure
that it says decimal number and
then the length number is how
many numbers there can be in
your total number and the
precision is how many decimal
places there can be.
So we'll keep length the same
but we'll turn down precision to
two.
So our area will have two
decimal places and hit.
OK so now we have our new column
for area.
So we're going to use this
column to calculate the area.
So the way we can do this is by
using this drop down box here to
select the area column and then
this is where we can put in the
function to calculate area.
So that's $ and then area and
now we can click update all and
there we go.
That's populated the row under
area with the total area of
Ziama.
So we can see that it's 1221.95
kilometres squared.
And now we've made a change to
our table.
So let's just remember to save
our edits so we can use the
third button from the left at
the top of our table to do so
and toggle editing mode off and
that's how to calculate area in
QGIS.
So now have a go at doing the
same for the Wonegizi and
Wologizi protected areas.
You don't need to worry about
setting the project units
anymore as we've already done
that.
So just open up the attribute
table for these two other
protected areas, create a new
field and calculate the area in
there.